---
layout: recipe
title: Basic Pie Crust
from: Joy the Baker
fromurl: http://joythebaker.com/2017/12/baking-101-how-to-make-pie-crust-by-hand/
prep: 1 hour
---

##### Ingredients:

* 1 ¼ cup all-purpose flour
* ½ tablespoon granulated sugar
* ½ teaspoon salt
* ½ cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cold, cubed or grated
* 3-5 tablespoons cold water

<br>

##### Directions:

1. To make the crust, in a medium bowl, whisk together flour, sugar, and salt. 
2. Add cold, grated butter and, using your fingers, work the butter into the flour mixture. 
3. Quickly break the butter down into the flour mixture, some butter pieces will be the size of oat flakes.
4. Create a well in the butter and flour mixture and pour in 6 tablespoons of cold water. 
5. Use a fork to bring to dough together. Try to moisten all of the flour bits. Add more water if necessary. 
6. On a lightly floured work surface, dump out the dough mixture. It will be moist and shaggy. That’s perfect. If you find the dough needs more moisture, add a bit more. 
7. Press and knead the dough into a disk.
8. Wrap the disk in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour.
9. When you're ready to bake, remove the pie dough disk from the fridge. 
10. On a lightly floured surface, roll dough out into about a 13-inch round. Roll the dough a few strokes, then use your fingers to move the emerging circle around the floured surface. This ensures that the dough isn’t sticking to the work surface. The circle won’t be perfect, that’s ok.
11. Try not to get any rips in the rolled out dough, but if you do, they can be patched together with extra dough. When you roll the dough and you can see it start springing back, that means that the butter is warming and the crust shouldn’t be rolled out anymore. 
12. Gently lift the 13-inch round from the floured surface and center in a deep 9-inch round pie dish. Place in the fridge while you make your filling.
13. Bake pie according to your particular recipe. Share. Enjoy!
